## STAC Sprint #3

Taking place in Menlo Park, CA at USGS, as part of the Satellite Data Interoperability Workshop. 

Goals: 

* Work towards a stable 0.7.0 version of the spec based on resolving differences in existing implementations
* Create new data and software implementations, and align existing ones for full interoperability
    * And use these implementations to flesh out core changes and extensions needed
* Build and advance client libraries and test engines to exercise implementations

### Agenda


See https://github.com/radiantearth/community-sprints/raw/master/08132018-menlo-park-ca/Satellite%20Data%20Interoperability%20Workshop%20%20-%20Technical%20Program.pdf (will port over to be here, and a pull request to include it is *much* appreciated)


### Small Groups

The majority of the time in the STAC sprint will be heads down working on advancing the specification or coding on 
implementations and supporting libraries. The 'spec advances' groups will be limited to those who have actually implemented 
the specification, so we can have conversations that are very grounded in the reality of implementing, instead of theoretical 
ideas of how the spec *could* advance. Such conversations will definitely happen in the evenings, but we want to keep our 
sprint focused on concrete steps forward.

#### Static STAC Spec Advances 

Implementors of Static STAC's will gather to compare their implementation notes, and discover where they differed. 
The core of the static spec needs a refresh, particularly in aligning with 'validation', and really fleshing out 
what each fields means. Should discuss relative vs absolute links – if we can align on one. Also the organization of 
sub-catalogs, if we want to make any recommendations. The group should also touch on what formats people used, and what 
recommendations on link types and asset definitions could be standardized. The group is also encouraged to explore additional
fields that can drive STAC Browser to make it more useful / interesting. A final topic is 'crawlability' – how to get google 
and other search engines to use pages generated by STAC Browser or other tools to index STAC Items. 

**People**: Michael Smith, Tim Rutherford, Alireza Jazayeri, Paul Wideman, Jason Gilman

#### STAC API Spec Advances 

There are a few solid STAC API implementations, but they've made some different choices. The group will discuss and resolve
those differences, and explore any extensions needed. A topic of top priority is alignment with WFS3, what is needed to stay 
aligned, or where we want to make Pull Requests to the WFS3 repo to align with how we are working. The query / filter language
is of particular interest. The group should also touch on what formats people used, and what recommendations on link types and 
asset definitions could be standardized. A stretch goal would be to explore how STAC Browser could be compatible with STAC 
API's – what to change in the spec or in the browser implementation to align.

**People**: Frederico Liporace, Chris Brown, Damien Ayers, David Lindenbaum, Seth Fitzsimmons

#### Client & Testing Tools

Now that there are a number of STAC server implementations it'd be good to get more clients. A key step is to get a validating 
client that can serve as a test engine, so that clients can expect consistent responses. There have been a couple javascript 
implementations. It'd be great to sprint to advance any number of those clients, as well as explore things like GDAL/OGR 
compatibility, QGIS support, OpenLayers/Leaflet, etc. WFS3 is working in OGR, so testing it against the existing STAC server 
implementations would be great. And recommending to the implementations what they need to be compliant, or extending OGR, 
would be awesome. 

**People**: 

#### Collection Level Searching

One topic of interest, especially from OpenEO and Google Earth Engine, has been the search of collections, instead of within a 
collection. STAC is focused on search within a collection, but it includes some simple constructs to catalog collections. The 
ideal is an independent spec that STAC uses, and GEE and OpenEO can also use, to describe collections in a lightweight way. 
Ideally this aligns with other efforts like DCAT, CAT 4.0 and WFS 3.0

**People**: Simon Ilyushchenko, Matthias Mohr

#### Spec Editing / Website / Outreach

Another way people can help advance the spec is reading it over and fixing any inconsistencies and errors. And ideally helping explain better how it works within the spec, with more examples / samples, etc. People are also welcome to sprint on making a website to explain STAC, or on other 'outreach' tasks like tutorials or blog posts to help raise STAC's awareness.

#### Sprint on your own implementation 

Some participants have not managed to find the time to build their own implementation, but are excited for some dedicated time during the sprint to work. They are encouraged to, and to ask for help from those around who have already implemented.

**People**: Simeon Fitch, Kirk Larsen
